---
layout: post
title:  "Better late than never....."
date:   2016-05-16 21:54:19 +0000
---

 
After nearly 25 years in various roles in the financial services industry, from a clerk on the New York Stock Exchange, to Regional Vice President of a Commercial Real Estate Investment firm traveling constantly throughout the western US, I’ve gained some invaluable life and corporate experience, and I am very grateful for those opportunities, especially considering that I never earned a college degree. But over time, I realized that I wanted something more than just people/relationship skills. I needed to learn a true craft, a skill that will not only provide for my family, but would also continue to grow over time and with the times. So a few years ago I looked into the possibility of taking some computer science courses at a local community college. I did have front end design experience building sites for local small businesses while living in Arizona, and had worked with programmers (who would do back end developing) so I knew how valuable programmers are, but I didn’t really have 2-4 years to earn a degree or certificate that I wasn’t entirely convinced would not make me hirable. So I set that idea aside until (yet again) I grew disenchanted of my sales roles, and about 8 months ago revisited the college idea. THEN I came across a PBS Newshour piece on Coding Bootcamps which highlighted what Flatiron School was doing for people and immediately thought after years I FINALLY found a way to get the on the job skills I needed to turn me in to a successful full stack developer! I didn’t even realize that it was actually possible to even get a position as a developer without a CA degree. This was everything I hoped for. So fast forward to today… I’m about 60 or so percent through the Full Stack Program and although it is even more rigorous than I imagined, and there is so much covered that there are times where I wonder if all of this is really sinking in, I can say that its is an amazing experience and the best opportunity I could ever ask for, and I’m extremely excited for what lies ahead. I have absolutely no doubt that this will prove to be the best career move I could have ever made.
